---
layout: post
title: Project 1 Blog
---
**What I did in the project?**
For this project I created a vignette for reading and summarizing data from the National Hockey League's API. I documented this whole process by making frequent commits to my GitHub repo. I investigated the various endpoints for the records API, wrote a function to account for the different scenarios of user inputs while still being able to get well-formatted, parsed data back. I created a second function for the different modifiers, I had written this function accounting for all of the modifiers before realizing we just need to make it for the "team.stats" modifier, but I included my original function because I didn't want to let all that work go to waste. Then I learned about wrapper function and what it does. Eventaully after many episodes of migraines I was able to write a wrapper function that calls the other two functions and get this wrapper function to "function" properly. 

After the not-so-fun function writing process, then the actual data analysis began. For this part, I pulled data from a few endpoinots, combined some of them together to create new tables. I created new variables whch were functions of some existing variables. I created contingency tables to get an overall picture of some of the variables. To create numerical summaries for quantitative variables at each setting of some of the categorical variables, I really had to stop and think about what made sense, but I was able to get relatively interesting results back. The last part of the project was to create various types of plots utilizing coloring, grouping, labels, facets, etc. I managed to create bar plots, histograms, box plot, and scatter plots. Using different color options was fun, figuring out how to add the various types of labels - not so much. 

**Intersting finding?**
Since I did not know anything about hoockey prior to this project, I'd say that everythinng was at least somewhat interesting. Because I did not really go into this project with the overwhelming curiosity to find out about something specific, I'd say the most interesting finding came from researching what the different position codes actually meant, what a "shutout" or a "shootout" actually meant. Also I did not know how many hockey teams are currently active or how many teams there have been, so at least now if someone talks to me about hockey I won't be completely clueless and gullible. 

**What process did I go through for this project?**
First I read the project instructions very carefully and marked all the things that didn't make sense and asked during office hour. I'm very glad I did this because knowing how to set up the overall framework of the project gave me some peace of mind. Then I pulled all the NHL records API endpoints individually and saved them as .csv files, I looked through each table to get an impression on what they're about. I did the same for the different modifiers. Then I started writing the functions trying to make sense of all the scenarios of user inputs. After I got my functions to work, I started pulling data from the two API's and combined into tables the fields that were interesting to me. Based off these new tables, I did the various types of exploratory data analysis and created plots. I went back and wrote comments for most of the codes chunks and included comments about the various sections of the final vignette and discussed all the different plots.  

**What was the most difficult part of the logic and programming for me?**
The most difficult part for me was definitely writing the three functions. I did not have much coding experience so the idea of writing functions was dreadful. I also had a hard time accounting for all the possible scenarios of user inputs and what could go wrong with each. Mapping the ID and team name also gave me LOTS of grief, I felt like I knew what I needed to do but I did not have the skills to make it happen. Long stories short I had to write a loop to accomplish this mapping, which was equally if not more dreadful as writing functions.  

**What would I do differently in approaching a similar project in the future?** 
If I were to redo this project, or do a similar project in the future, I'd definitely spend more time reading through all the documentations for the different API, endpoint and modifiers. Finding out from my classmates during office hour things I did not realize before, wow that was rough. Everytime I felt like I regressed in this journey to finishing the project and my to-do list only grew longer. I should also take an even closer look at the various tables we got back. For example, I did not realize we needed to parse through the data frames more if there were data frames within the data frames, nor did I realize (or wanted to) parse through the HTML code inside a data frame until a classmate asked. 



[Link to GitHub Project Page](https://siare1023.github.io/ST558-Project1/) \
[Link to GitHub Project Repo](https://github.com/siare1023/ST558-Project1) \
[Link to GitHub Main Repo](https://github.com/siare1023/siare1023.github.io)
