---
layout: post
title: Project 2 Blog
---
**What I would do differently** \
For this project there are actually not that much I would do differently. We worked until the day this project is due, which had its upsides and downsides. Upside is after doing the last 3 homework assignments, I felt more confortable writing the different models, which is most likely the meat of this project. And I was able to make adjustments to our code after hearing some of issues my classmates ran into while automating the 7 reports. I would have been frustrated if I encountered these issues before hearing about them from someone else. And it's always enlightening to hear solutions in the office hours. Downside is, as always, how stressed we are trying to finish everything up on the last day. But this time it's always worth it. 

**What was the most difficult part** \
The most difficult part this time was actually doing the summarization section. Because this is a group problem, so we had to coordinate whho's doing what type of summarization. So we had a great plan and divided out which plots each of us will take on, but what we visualized as making sense beforehand did not turn out to be helpful after plotting. And with so many variables it's a bit difficult to think through which plot to use. Another difficult part for me was pushing our codes into GitHub. Fortunately Tyler's way more skilled and comfortable using GitHub than I am, so he took on the daunting task of merging our pushes. I'm glad he took care of that, because I definitely do not know what I'm doing. 

**What are my big take-aways from this project** \
My biggest take away is GitHub can be useful when working with someone else or on a team (as long as someone knows how to merge conflicts)... And no matter how scary a project appears to be, we can always get through it as long as we do our parts and communicate with our partner effectively. And I feel accomplished knowing I can fit different models to make predictions, yay! 


[Link to Tyler's GitHub Project Page](https://tylerapollard.github.io/ST558-Project-2/) \
[Link to Tyler's GitHub Project Repo](https://github.com/tylerapollard/ST558-Project-2) \
[Link to My GitHub Main Repo](https://github.com/siare1023/siare1023.github.io)
